added c++ solution for cowntagion (intro tree) (#851)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/USACO dec20-cowntagion.mdx

id: usaco-1062
source: USACO Silver 2020 December
title: Cowntagion
author: Kevin Sheng (Java), Tanish Tyagi (C++)
---

[Official Editorial](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob1_silver_dec20.html)

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## C++ Implementation

```cpp 
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

#define maxn 100005
int n;
vector<int> adj[maxn];

int dfs(int start, int parent) {
	int ans = 0;
	int cows = adj[start].size();
	if (parent == -1) cows++;

	int currCows = 1;
	int days = 0;

> 	//cloning cows and seeing how many days it will take

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	//count the number of superspreader events needed
```

	while (currCows < cows) {
		days++;
		currCows *= 2;
	}
	ans += days;

	for (auto next : adj[start]) {
		if (next != parent) {

> 			ans += dfs(next, start) + 1; //doing +1 because takes 1 day for the sick cow to travel to next node, so need to factor that in to ans

Reviewer: Lines should have no more than 80 characters.

Author: sounds good. I just put the comment on the line above

		}
	}
	return ans;
}

int main() {
	cin >> n;

> 	for (int i = 0; i < n-1;i++) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	for (int i = 0; i < n-1; i++) {
```

id: usaco-1062
source: USACO Silver 2020 December
title: Cowntagion

> author: Kevin Sheng (Java), Tanish Tyagi (C++)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Kevin Sheng (Java, Python), Tanish Tyagi (C++)
```

---

[Official Editorial](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob1_silver_dec20.html)

> 

Reviewer 2: Imo, you should add your written solution for the DFS solution of this problem. Explain how you used DFS to solve this problem.

Author: Sounds good

Reviewer 3: Is the official solution particularly bad?

Reviewer 3: If it's the same solution, I'd rather not rewrite it unless we can significantly increase its clarity/quality.

Author: I just thought that using dfs was more intuitive and simpler than the official solution.

Reviewer 3: Ok

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## C++ Implementation

```cpp 
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

#define maxn 100005
int n;
vector<int> adj[maxn];

int dfs(int start, int parent) {
	int ans = 0;
	int cows = adj[start].size();
	if (parent == -1) cows++;

	int currCows = 1;
	int days = 0;
	//count the number of superspreader events needed
	while (currCows < cows) {
		days++;
		currCows *= 2;
	}
	ans += days;

> 

Reviewer 2: // Count the number of roads each cow has to travel.

Reviewer: I don't think this is what the code is doing? I think it should probably be `// Send one cow to each adjacent farm without a sick cow`.

Reviewer 2: Well this is what it calculates...

Reviewer: I think it's not really about each cow, but a cumulative count of roads traveled over all the cows?

Reviewer 2: Oh true. Please change to: 

`// Count the number of roads traveled by all the cows`

Reviewer: Actually, it also includes the superspreader events that happen at the other farms, so saying `the number of roads` seems a little inaccurate. Maybe just saying that it is a dfs with `// Send one cow to each adjacent farm without a sick cow` should be good? You can change the wording if you want.

Reviewer 4: :/ isn't `days` is the number of superspreader events it takes to make the # of sick cows at `start` at least `cows`?

Reviewer: this is about the section below (dfs for each of the adjacent farms)

	for (auto next : adj[start]) {
		if (next != parent) {

> 			//add 1 because the sick cow takes 1 day to travel to next node

Reviewer 2: Once you address my request (above), delete this comment, since it'll be redundant.

> 			//doing +1 because takes 1 day for the sick cow to travel to next node, so need to factor that in to ans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			//add 1 because the sick cow takes 1 day to travel to next node
```
this line was still too long

id: usaco-1062
source: USACO Silver 2020 December
title: Cowntagion
author: Kevin Sheng (Java, Python), Tanish Tyagi (C++)
---

[Official Editorial](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob1_silver_dec20.html)

> We can create a graph based off the roads between the farms which is given as input.

Reviewer 3: This sentence feels unnecessary. We could delete or you can instead summarize the problem/solution or give some intuition?

> We can create a graph based off the roads between the farms which is given as input.

Reviewer 4: could you put this in the CPP section (the java and py solution does not use dfs)

Reviewer 3: Would it be preferable to have 2 separate solutions? (I'd rather have language differences be just transcription, not an entirely different soln)

> The fastest way for COWVID-19 to spread to all the farms is for a farm to have superspreader events until 1 cow can be sent to every adjacent farm. This would start at the root node, and repeat until COWVID-19 has spread to all the farms. 

Reviewer 3: Not very thorough. If you don't already know the solution, this doesn't make much sense.

Reviewer 4: add smth like "see the official analysis for proof".

Reviewer 3: It's not whether it's rigorous -- It's hard to understand what's going on.

"a farm to have superspreader events until 1 cow can be sent to every adjacent farm" which farm? what about the non-root farms?

It's just not very intuitive to read.

> The fastest way for COWVID-19 to spread to all the farms is for a farm to have superspreader events until 1 cow can be send to every adjacent farm. This would start at the root node, and repeat until COWVID-19 has spread to the entire farm. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fastest way for COWVID-19 to spread to all the farms is for a farm to have superspreader events until 1 cow can be sent to every adjacent farm. This would start at the root node, and repeat until COWVID-19 has spread to all the farms. 
```

> We can use a DFS to keep track of the number of days. Instead of the traditional visited array, we can keep track of the parent node instead. 

Reviewer 3: In a tree, tracking parent *is* the traditional way.

</PySection>

</LanguageSection>

## Solution 2 - DFS

**Time Complexity**: $\mathcal O(N)$

## Implementation

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp 
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

#define maxn 100005

int n;
vector<int> adj[maxn];

int dfs(int start, int parent) {
	int ans = 0;
	int cows = adj[start].size();
	if (parent == -1) {
		//parent node is currently root node 
		cows++;
	}

	int currCows = 1;
	int days = 0;
	//count the number of superspreader events needed
	while (currCows < cows) {
		days++;
		currCows *= 2;
	}

> 	// Send one cow to each adjacent farm without a sick cow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	//send one cow to each adjacent farm without a sick cow
```
make this comment more consistent with the others

	ans += days;

	for (auto next : adj[start]) {
		if (next != parent) {
			ans += dfs(next, start) + 1; 
		}
	}
	return ans;
}

int main() {
	cin >> n;
	for (int i = 0; i < n-1; i++) {
		int a,b;
		cin >> a >> b;
		a--; b--;
		adj[a].push_back(b);
		adj[b].push_back(a);
	}

> 	cout << dfs(0,-1) << endl;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	cout << dfs(0, -1) << endl;
```
the other dfs call has a space; it doesn't really matter which one you do, just keep it consistent
